# PROGRESSIVE OVERLOAD

### Video Demo: <https://youtu.be/rW2Bo1ZziEU?si=xyM78PeMhiHcpSUL>

### Description: Progressive Overload is a website that tracks user exercises including the exercise name, weight, reps and sets for that exercise. It is then able to display that data on a graph to visualise that overtime they are progressing in their training. The project uses Flask as the backend and includes SQL databases. 

### Files: The project has 5 html files that display the data, often using Jinja and passed variables from the backend (app.py) to dynamically display the users information. It also includes some javascript functionality, the most notable example being the graph from charts.html where a line chart from charts.js is used. To style the page there is styles.css file that is used to style differnt elements, often using classes to style specific elements. The backend and most of the functionality of the page is in app.py, which is where all the routes and handling of POST and GET requests are done. To make app.py more readable ive created a app_functions file that has some larger functions that are imported into the main app.py. There also is a logo image i have created (ProgressiveOverloadLogo.png) that is displayed on the top navigation bar of all pages. The SQL database is stored in ProgressiveOverload.db.

### app.py explanation: it handles all POST and GET requests form the web page and executes quereys with my database. Ive imported useful flask, password hashing, and datetime functions. It uses flask session to keep track of who is currenlty logged in, and certain routes require to be logged in to view. 

### index explanation: creating the addSet and addExercise buttons in this has a neat little trick to it. When you click the button it creates two popups, one for the actual content, and another one that is transparent and overlays over the rest of the screen. If you click on this transparent popup, or submit it closes both popups. To do this it uses javaScript functions showPopup() and hidePopup which just sets the layer to 'none' (nothing) or 'block' (visable). The form data is sent to the backend to be processed and then entered into the SQL database. The backend quereys the database for all exercises that have data for that user and the selected date, creates a dictionary and then sends that to the frontend. Index also has two different routes for '/remove_set' , '/add_set', and '/add_exercise'  forms, which remove or add to the database user form input respectivley. 

### charts explination: It displays the user's data in a chart. Like the rest of the pages it has the navigation bar at the top to go to the diary, charts or logout. You can select the date period of when you want to display for each year. I had a problem as selecting the date sent a post request which would reset the date, so to fix that i implemented a bit of spaghetti code that checks every month's value in the dropdown and checks if that was selected. To select the year it detects which years are in the database for that user and makes them selectable. The user selects which exercise and the graph then updates to represent those selections and that data for that user. The graph was a big issue for me, so I did use alot of AI assistance to get it working, as it takes a large dictionary of each exercsies to display. The backend gets the selected timeframe within a year, from the 1st, selected_month, year, to the 29th, selected_month, year. I found this to be an easy way to handle date selection but obviously makes it difficult to view things happening on the 30th or 31st. A better way to do this in the future would be perhaps with two sliders for the start and the end dates. The get_exercise_data function packages the best set for each exercise on each day its in the diary, and sends that to the chart. AI helped me with this function as I find dictionarys difficult to wrap my head around.

### login and register explantation: the login and register pages are based off the same pages from the CS50 finance problem. It handles any errors that may arise if the user puts into wrong stuff.

### about explination: just includes a description of what Progressive Overload is. It can be accessed by clicking on the progressive Overload logo png found on the register or login pages.  

### css styling: this website uses some bootstrap elements and some charts.js elements but the rest is my own styling. It loosely follows a colour pallet of orange, browns and white. And trys to make it as easy to read as possible. Most elements center in the middle of page so whether youre on mobile or a desktop browser all the information is visable (although i havent tested it on a phone). It is difficult to get each element into the correct spot as its still confusin when to use padding or margin, and its often a mystery to me why some elements are positioned the way they are. but i feel as ive got a great base for it being usable.

### database explanation: I have 3 tables in my database; exercises, user_exercises and users. exercies stores a string for the name and an id. user-exercies stores the exercise_id (a key to determine what exercises it is), the set number, weight, reps, and the date. The users has a username, a hashed password, and an email, although i dont do anythign with the email. The displayed sets in the diary page is differet to what is in the database, this is because if a user removes an exercise that is not the last one, it doesnt update the set_number in the database, therefore making it redundant. I could remove the set_number in the database and calculate the amount of sets the user has done by just counting how many they have done that day. The exercises table also doesnt check for similar names, for example 'Pull Up' and 'Pull Ups' have differnet ID's but are the same name.